Hello welcome back.
So we just reached the next date by playing a random action from our list of playable actions.
And now the next step is step for computing the temporal difference the temporal difference which is
given by this formula here is at the core of the cube learning algorithm because indeed that's what
the temporal difference here that will update the cube values at each iteration.
And as a reminder the temporal difference is the difference between this element here which is the reward
we get by playing the action in the state as T plus the highest Q value of the next state as Tipper's
one that we got in step three.
Minus this element which is the q value of action played 80 which is the action we played in step 2
in the current state Estey which is our current state we selected in step 1.
All right.
So this is a temporal difference and that's exactly what we have to compute right now in step 4 of the
Q learning algorithm.
So we'll just compute that exactly as it is.
And therefore let's go back to our code and let's introduce a new variable which we're going to call
of course naturally tiddy as a temporal difference.
All right.
So let's start again.
Tiddy is equal to first the word we get by playing the action 80 which is the action we played in step
2 in the current state t which is the action we selected in step 1.
All right so let's get that.
It's really easy we're already have our reward function or our reward Matrix.
That's the same.
So we can just take it and in some brackets because our matrix we're going to get the inputs we need
which is as we just said first the current state that's as T and then the action we just play.
Remember the action we just played is exactly the same as the next set because remember the action 80
is in fact the state that we reached by playing that action.
So the next day.
Plus one in the action 80 are exactly the same and therefore here instead of putting the Kurn action
we can directly put the next state.
All right and we have our first element of the temporal difference.
Now let's go back to our slide.
Here it is.
Then the next element would still bar of the first element.
The difference is the highest Q value we can have for the next state as the plus 1 multiplied by the
discount factor again.
All right so how are we going to get this maximum Q value of the next date as the first one over the
possible actions.
A That we can have that is over the different columns in the row corresponding to Esti plus 1.
Well once again we're lucky to have an umpire with us because pi is going to give us exactly what we
need.
That is going to give us the action that maximizes the Q value for the row corresponding to the one
in the matrix of Q value.
Therefore we won't have to build or get any max function.
We can just directly take the Q value of the rogue or responding to the next state as Plus 1 and then
using this none by function which is the Oregon max function we'll be able to get the action that will
give us the highest Q value on this row corresponding to Esti plus 1 in our matrix of Q value.
That's really practical.
We don't have to get any max function so I'm going to show you.
First let's get gamma because we discount a little bit this highest Q value.
And now that's where it gets interesting.
In order to get this high Q value we don't have to take any Max here we can just take our matrix of
Q value Q And then remember.
Imagine this is the matrix of Q value here.
And imagine this row.
Here is the row corresponding to the next day as D plus one.
Well we just need to get here is the highest Q value on this road that is.
We just need to get the cell with the highest Q value.
All right.
So first of all the first thing we have to do here is get the correct row.
Which is the row corresponding to SD plus 1 which we called the next state.
Right then that's where we're going to use our magical function.
By and by we want to get here.
Following the same example we want to get here.
The column that has the action which corresponds to the highest Q value on that road.
And this action as we just said we're going to get it.
Thanks to the RMX function by non-pay which will give us exactly the action that maximizes the Q value.
On the specific row.
So here we go.
Let's call this the max function by non-pilots why I just took none by here.
Argh Max than parenthesis.
And inside the parenthesis we simply put the row of our matrix of Q values Q from which we want to get
the action that will give us the highest Q value on that road and therefore inside here I just have
to input this row which is q of the next state that is in the row corresponding to the next date.
And then we just add comma and then nothing else because here that's where it needs to find the action
that will maximize the Q value on this row corresponding to next date.
No arguments here will return the action here which will maximize the value of the next date.
For all the possible actions in the row corresponding to the next date.
And that's exactly what we have here.
That is the highest Q value we can find in the row corresponding to C plus one over the different columns
corresponding to the actions.
All right so here we go.
That was a trick.
That's actually the most efficient way we can get this size Q value.
There are some other ways.
Congratulations if you found any of them.
And of course congratulations if you found this trick about ARG Max function.
All right perfect.
So now what do we have.
What do we have.
Well we have this first element of the temporal difference.
Now let's get the second one.
The value of the action 80 played in step 2 in the current state t selected in step 1.
So that's an easy one to get it.
Well we just need to take our matrix of Q values Q again and then in some brackets just get the current
state because this is as t.
And then of course the action 80.
But again the action is nothing else than the state as Plus one that will reach by playing this action
80 and therefore the column we want here is of course next state perfect.
So congratulations.
We just computed the temporal difference and now we're ready to move on to the final step of the cube
learning algorithm and update our Q value.
That is a q value of the action 80 played in step 2 in the current state as selected in step 1.
We're going to update that by adding this temporal difference multiply by learning rate alpha.
So let's do that in the next toile.
And until then enjoy AI.